# Last day review

contest: (2 contests attended), solved 5 problems in contest, 1 daily challenge, 2-3 binary problems

contest_score = 4.5/9 ( 4 solved + 1 solved after the contest) [15/30]
study score = 2/3 ( 2 hours out of 3 ) [20/30]
practice score = (2 bisection problem + 1 (but this was long) writing functions for common queries in sorted list)
-> (2 + 1)/ 10 -> 12 / 40

overall score = 15 + 20 + 12 = 47 / 100

Overall: ok

I just started working on the problems a bit late, only after 12:00pm. Why was that ? Because, I am also spending some time to keep track of my scores and I am trying to game this process. I spent around 1 - 2 hours. Also, I spent more time listening to Naval. I think listening to Naval is great, but I think I should only do it in the morning. (Maybe during gym, or while having food or on a walk). 

Practice problems are less, it is because of the same reason. I learnt all the common queries, regarding bisection (finding the insertion point)
using python's bisect library. This is common knowledge, but I realized now that you just cannot push in heap to maintain sorted list. You can pushin heap to get maximum, minimum kth elements, that is the use case of heap.

Note for next day:

- Do not listen to podcast, however good it is. (Only at the very morning or at the end of the day or on walk or when I am having food.)
- Try reducing youtube time as much as possible(I have blocked myself from youtube in my computer but I have to do the same in my mobile)
- Learn to work on the quiet, no music, nothing, just pure silence.
- Intensity, intensity, intensity
- It seems, I can solve two easy contest questions(around at 25-30mins mark most of the time). It's on the third question, I get tripped. This is where you need to have a better solution, there is generally a trick or you may need to have the knowledge of something already. I need to believe I can solve 3 medium problems.
- If I cannot solve the 3rd question, I need to really look hard at the solution, understand the idea also at the same time try to find why I couldn't come up with the solution. Maybe, it's not the lack of knowledge or pattern, you have just not tried really really hard. You need to push yourself, you should be restless, you should be thinking about all the possibilities that there may be. 30 mins is a long long time, If you are just going to stare at the screen, you may as well just end your session right there, and look into the solution. This thirty minutes are important because I am trying to learn how to solve a problem. Push yourself. Brain is a muscle and it only strengthen if you work it.
- Learn a topic and if you have a set of problems to practice on that topic, that is great. And, slowly progress with increasing complexity. I feel like, I am trying to solve hard problems but 2. I like the knowledge and have less pattern recognition. 2. I am not at the stage where I am certain my subsolutions to the problem are correct. Example, if the main problem depends on binary search, I should not trip on binary search. I should be so good and confident, that my solution for binary search works with certainty. 
